<h1>C | Week 1</h1> 
<h3>14/09/2022</h3>

- old language
- Three arching goals when writing code:
    - correctness: does it work?
    - design: is it well designed? 
        - this takes time!
    - style: readability of code, easy to understand
- Integrated Development Environment (IDE) | Text Editor
- source code --> |compiler| --> machine code
    - need to compile before running code
    - how to compile in C:
        1. use cmd "make fileName"
        2. "./fileName"
- Command Line Interface (CLI)
- header files
    - tell compiler to load required libraries required to run programme
    - <stdio.h>, <cs50.h>
        - menu of all available functions (e.g. printf())
- linux commands
    - cd = change directory
    - cp = copy
    - ls = list
    - mkdir = make directory
    - mv = move
    - rm = remove
    - rmdir = remove directory
    - code = create file
    - ./ = current directory
    - cd .. = change to previous directory
    - cd ../../ = change to grandparent
    - cd / = go to home directory
- data types
    - int | %i = number
        - ints support 4 billion numbers, 2 billion positive and 2 billion negative
    - long | %li = big int
    - float | %f = decimal number
    - double = very big float
    - char = single character
    - string = words
    - bool = 1/0
    - lists/arrays = lists of s
    - dictonary
    - sets
- operator
    - % remainder/modula
- floating point impresision = computers inability fundementally to represent all real numbers 100% precisely.
    - this occurs as computers have finite memory, but numbers are infinite.
    - computers handle this by overwriting numbers in memory.
    - sometimes get truncation
        - dividing integers with computers only handles whole numbers, but such equations often results in decimal values. The decimal numbers to the right of the ecimal point, are removed, or truncated.
